# Coins

Product ownership is represented by App Coins.  Each product has its own coin.
Users earn ownership by completing tasks such as bounties or receiving tips
which award coins.  At any time, you can view the coin distribution for a given
product under the '/partners' ownership page for a product.  Similarly, each
user can see his coins among the products has has contributed to on the profile
page.

# How coins work for contributors

On Assembly, product contributors are rewarded with coins for that product.
When a bounty is created, unvested coins (explained later in this guide), are
allocated for a specific task. The core team determines the valuation and will
eventually award these coins to the contributor or set of contributors. These
coins do not come from the core team or the person who awarded them. They are
simply coins that have not yet been allocated for the product.

The percentage of coins that you own determine your ownership of the product
and the percentage of the profits that you will receive each month. However, as
more coins are awarded, your percentage will change, because you would then own
less of the total number of awarded coins.

Here's an example of how awarding coins changes the owernship of a product over
time:

1. @vanstee creates a product named Helpful and receives an initial share of
   500,000 coins.

   @vanstee owns 500,000/500,000 coins, equaling 100% ownership in the product

2. @chrislloyd puts together a homepage for Helpful and is awarded a bounty
   valued at 50,000 coins.

   @vanstee owns 500,000/550,000 coins, equaling 90% ownership in the product
   @chrisloyd owns 50,000/550,000 coins, equaling 10% ownership in the product

3. @chrislloyd tips @vanstee 500 coins for a suggestion on a bounty.

   @vanstee owns 500,500/550,000 coins, equaling 91% ownership in the product
   @chrisloyd owns 49,500/550,000 coins, equaling 9% ownership in the product

# How coins work behind the scenes

Coins come in several forms.  Each product has its own coin.  A new product is
initialized with 10 million unvested coins.  An unvested coin is a coin that
has been created and is held by the product itself, ie not by a person.  It has
not yet been allocated to a user.  Thus it does not play a part in the relative
percentage ownership commanded by users.  

Coins awarded to users immediately become 'vested' coins.  These coins are
fully in play and give full ownership rights.  Unvested coins become vested
upon the awarding of a bounty.  Vested coins must come out of the available
pool of unvested coins.

We introduced vested vs unvested coins to introduce predictability in the total
supply of coins for a product.  Coins can only be awarded to users if they
already existed as unvested coins.  The unvested coin number can be increased
by a majority vote of product owners.  But an increase in the coin supply, aka,
a dilution of current owners, should be a major decision made with maximal
community input.  

If you are an owner, you can rest assured that your coins can only be diluted
in a controlled, predictable process.  Coins cannot be created endlessly
through bounties you might not keep track of.  Expansion of the coin supply is
a comparatively rare event in which your feedback will be solicited.  This is a
measure to protect owners; particularly if a product is exceptionally valuable
in financial terms, we want to maximally protect stakeholders from unexpected,
unpredictable dilution.

For all practical purposes, such as the allocation of revenue, or exercising
product governance rights, a user's ownership is calculated as his percentage
of vested coins, not the total number of coins.  So, for example, if a product
has 10,000,000 total coins, but only 4,000,000 are vested, a user with
1,000,000 coins effectively owns 25% of the product.  He will receive 25% of
profits and have a 25% say in governance-related decisions.  Only vested coins
count towards profit disbursements and product management decisions.
